eating before swimming doesn't cause
cramps
everyone knows that you have to wait at
least 30 minutes after eating to go
swimming
if you don't you might cramp up or even
worse
sink this is actually not true our
bodies are perfectly adapted to swim
while full
if you do happen to get a cramp while in
the pool for any reason
just relax and float you'll be feeling
fine soon enough
handling a toad or frog won't give you
warts
warts are caused by a certain virus
which is only carried by humans
the myth came about because of the bumpy
wart-like skin texture of toads and tree
frogs
frogs might not give you warts but they
could still be poisonous
so you shouldn't handle them you don't
accidentally eat eight spiders a year
while sleeping
this old myth doesn't have a leg or
eight legs to stand on
most people sleep with their mouths
closed so in the unlikely event that a
spider actually made it to your face
it wouldn't even have the opportunity to
go into your mouth
if you sleep with your mouth open though
you're most likely snoring
which creates vibrations strong enough
to scare any spiders away
bananas don't grow on trees
we call the plant that bananas grow on
banana trees
but guess what they're actually an herb
weirdly they're most closely related to
the ginger family
these trees are really just big
stem-like succulents
like aloe vera jade plants or cacti
just don't try peeling cacti like a
banana
the banana itself is also technically a
berry
like a pumpkin a cucumber and an avocado
[Music]
sitting too close to a tv won't ruin
your eyes
we've all been told not to sit too close
to the tv and pc monitor
or you'll damage your eyes
ophthalmologists have said that it can
cause temporary strain to the eyes
but long-term problems are rare if
you're nearsighted
chances are you're always going to be
whether you sit too close or not
you don't lose most of your body heat
through your head
while it may feel that way during the
winter our body loses heat
all over you need to wear a hat because
it's more exposed
unlike the rest of the body which is
kept toasty with jackets and thick pants
swallowed gum won't stay in you for
seven years
you should definitely avoid swallowing
gum that's not something that's good for
you
but just in case you do by accident
you'll be happy to learn that it won't
stay inside your body for seven years
you can't fully digest the gum but all
that happens is that gum leaves your
body naturally in a matter of days
our tongues don't have different
sections for tasting
there's no bitter sweet sour umami
or salty sections of our tongue
whatsoever this giant mussel can taste
everything all over so you don't have to
worry about keeping specific
foods in specific parts of your mouth
fingerprints might not be unique
sounds terrifying doesn't it well the
reasoning is actually very simple
we can't check every fingerprint on
earth so it's difficult to know if they
really
are unique to each individual related
people can have somewhat
similar fingerprints and there are over
7 billion people on the planet
so it's almost impossible to check
sushi doesn't mean raw fish while many
people will think it means raw fish
sushi actually comes from a japanese
word meaning
sour rice and it's the rice that's at
the heart and soul of
every piece of sushi that's why you can
buy sushi with cooked fish in it in
supermarkets
sharks do have tongues it's a common
debate
but it turns out that sharks do have
tongues
just not the types of ones that you can
find on people
most can't even move them around so it
barely counts
for example the cookie cutter shark's
tongue doesn't help much with eating
instead it supports some of the bones
around its gills
and no it doesn't make delicious cookies
you can swallow watermelon seeds
watermelon is the perfect summertime
treat but worrying about a plant growing
inside you
can completely ruin it not to worry
seeds can't survive and grow inside
stomach acid
watermelon seeds are actually good for
you
flies live longer than 24 hours
some flies can live for a few days to
even years
that's right those pesky house flies
live a lot longer than you think
sometimes even up to a month so trapping
one in a room
won't make it go away faster it just
means that you won't have access to that
room for a long time
fresh fruits and veggies aren't superior
to frozen
having fresh instead of frozen produce
might seem like a no-brainer
but the choice isn't actually so simple
by the time that juicy mango or crisp
carrot gets to your local store
it's actually been through a lot most
fresh produce travels on trucks or
ships or planes and gets processed
once it arrives it's often covered in
pesticides
in order to keep it fresh now on the
other hand
frozen fruits and vegetables are
immediately frozen
keeping all their nutrients and minerals
preserved
if you can grow your own produce though
you can guarantee
freshness the great wall of china
can't be seen from the moon the only
thing that you can see from the moon
is earth which is mostly white with blue
and patches of yellow and green
vegetation no man-made object is
easily visible from this far away in low
earth orbit though
cities can be seen during the night and
day
these include major roadways airports
dams
and reservoirs hey i can even see my
house from there
lightning can strike the same spot more
than once
this myth has been around for a very
long time and it's just simply not true
lightning will strike whatever is
attracting it however many times it can
this means that in many cases it's more
likely to strike twice
just watch the empire state building
during a lightning storm
it gets hit more than 100 times every
year
saturn's rings aren't solid when you see
a photo of saturn
it'd be easy to assume that the rings
are solid but they're not
the rings are made up of tiny particles
of rock and ice that vary in size
from as small as a grain of sand to as
large as a house
good luck trying to spacewalk on these
rings
cracking your knuckles won't cause
arthritis
a lot of people are scared to crack
their knuckle joints because of advice
from friends and family
the most common myth is that it causes
arthritis
well this just isn't true at all one
scientist even cracked the knuckles in
his left hand for over 60 years
and was left with no discomfort
whatsoever
waking a sleepwalker won't hurt them in
fact
the most dangerous thing for a
sleepwalker is allowing them to carry on
wandering around
getting them back to bed so they don't
hurt themselves is the best way to make
sure
that they're okay we use most of our
brain percentage
we use far more than the myth of 10
percent that's right
especially you bright side viewer
although some parts of the brain have
yet to be figured out by scientists
we know enough to debunk this idea we
actually turn parts of our brain
on and off and tap into different parts
when they're needed
now we haven't unlocked any secret
powers yet but
hopefully we can find something one day
bears don't really sleep during
hibernation
bears don't sleep for months on end
while hibernating
they actually go into something called
torpor
this means that they slow things down in
their bodies but are still
able to react to any stimuli around them
if you see one sleeping during winter
just make sure to keep your distance
chameleons change color to show their
mood and to communicate
chameleons are known as masters of
camouflage but they often don't even use
their abilities to camouflage
they actually change color to show when
they're feeling a strong emotion
when they're agitated and upset they'll
turn black
when they're happy they'll stay a bright
green or blue
[Music]
the sun isn't a fireball the sun doesn't
burn as we think of it
like logs on a fire or a gas stove
it glows because it's a giant ball of
gas
with nuclear fusion taking place in its
core
our sun isn't yellow or white either
it glows green blue the human eye
sees all the rainbow colors around it
and mixes them together
to make the sun's famous golden yellow
dogs see more than black and white
asking dogs to read an eye chart
or to pick out colors would be
impractical but scientists have been
able to figure out the vision of dogs
they see the world through a basic color
scheme of yellow
blue and gray not black and white it
seems that they also lack the ability
to see the range of colors from green to
red chasing a tennis ball
has to do with movement and smell more
than color
salt doesn't make water boil faster
that tiny pinch you put in before your
pasta doesn't make any difference to the
amount of time it takes to come up to a
boil
the same goes for putting oil into the
water to stop your pasta from sticking
it doesn't work but it might still be
worth adding some
if you want to make sure that the water
doesn't boil over
vikings probably never wore horned
helmets
as awesome as they looked vikings didn't
have a practical use for horned helmets
this look was created for an opera
costume in the 19th century
and it stuck ever since get the point
looking sharp some vikings might have
used them
but archaeological finds have suggested
that if they did use them
it wasn't very common